docs: add repository README (#6)
profusion/use-location-query-state: README.md

## Installing

```
npm i @profusion/use-location-query-state
// or with yarn
yarn add @profusion/use-location-query-state
```

## Basic Usage

```tsx
const INITIAL_STATE = { _page: 0, _limit: 10 };

const FancyComponent = () => {
  const [state, setState] = useLocationQueryState(INITIAL_STATE);

  const handleNextPage = useCallback(() => {
    setState(currentState => ({
      ...currentState,
      _page: currentState._page + 1
    }))
  }, []);

  return (
    <div>
      Showing page: {state._page}

      <button onClick={handleNextPage}>Next page</button>
    </div>
  )
}
```

## Using custom converters

You can customize how your data is encoded/decoded to be stored/retrieved from the page URL.

To control how your state is converted, you can pass a second argument to the hook with your encode and decode functions.

```ts
useLocationQueryState(
  INITIAL_QUERY_STATE,
  {
    decode: (value) => Object.fromEntries(value.entries()),
    encode: (value) => new URLSearchParams(value),
  }
);
```

Your `decode` function receives a `URLSearchParams` and should return it as a plain javascript object.

> While your encoder receives your state object and should return it parsed as a `URLSearchParams`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
While your encoder receives your state object and should return it parsed as `URLSearchParams`.
```

![developed by](https://img.shields.io/badge/developed%20by-profusion-blue)
![npm bundle size](https://img.shields.io/bundlephobia/min/@profusion/use-location-query-state)
![npm](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@profusion/use-location-query-state)

# @profusion/use-location-query-state

This is a React hook which wraps `React.useState` and `location.search` in a single hook named as `useLocationQueryState`.

> Using this hook, you will have the same `[state, setState]` return, but the hook will internaly keep you state "in sync" with page query string.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Using this hook, you will have the same `[state, setState]` return, but the hook will internally keep your state "in sync" with the page query string.
```

When called for the first time, the hook will check for the query string and return its values as initial state, optionally you can also pass a initial state as a "fallback", that will be used when there is no querystring at the page URL.

Finally, when you call a `setState`, the page URL will be updated for you.

This way, you can easily have a state, for example, for your pagination, such as `{ page: 5, limit: 10 }` and this state will be reflected on page URL as `?page=5&limit=10`. With this your users can refresh the page, bookmark, or share a link to the exact location and state they want to share.

## Installing

```
npm i @profusion/use-location-query-state
// or with yarn
yarn add @profusion/use-location-query-state
```

## Basic Usage

```ts
const INITIAL_STATE = { _page: 0, _limit: 10 };

const FancyComponent = () => {
  const [state, setState] = useLocationQueryState(INITIAL_STATE);

>   // useEffect(() => {

Author: this is just a "pseudo-code" representing another use case. But I think it's ok to remove it since we have the examples directory

  //   // api fetch code
  //   request(url, {
  //     params: {
  //       _limit: state._limit,
  //       _page: state._page,
  //     }
  //   })
  // }, [state]);

  const handleNextPage = useCallback(() => {
    setState(currentState => ({
      ...currentState,
      _page: currentState._page + 1
    }))
  }, []);

  return (
    <div>
      Showing page: {state._page}

      <button onClick={handleNextPage}>Next page</button>
    </div>
  )
}
```

## Using custom converters

> You can customize how your data is encoded/decoded to be stored/retrieved from page URL.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can customize how your data is encoded/decoded to be stored/retrieved from the page URL.
```

To control how your state is converted, you can pass a second argument to the hook with your encode and decode functions.

```ts
useLocationQueryState(
  INITIAL_QUERY_STATE,
  {
    decode: (value) => Object.fromEntries(value.entries()),
    encode: (value) => new URLSearchParams(value),
  }
);
```

Your `decode` function receives a `URLSearchParams` and should return it as a plain javascript object.

> While your encode receives you state object and should return it parsed to a `URLSearchParams`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
While your encoder receives your state object and should return it parsed as a `URLSearchParams`.
```

> ### Field level converters

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Field-level converters
```

You can also set custom converters at field level. In the example above, if you want to "store" your `_page` in the URL as a binary number, and convert it back to decimal when retrieving from URL, you can set a custom converter to this field:

```ts
import createFieldBasedConverter from '@profusion/use-location-query-state/converters/createFieldBasedConverter';

const converter = createFieldBasedConverter({
  _page: {
    decode: (value, fieldName) => parseInt(value, 2),
    encode: (value, fieldName) => value.toString(2),
  },
});

const INITIAL_STATE = { _page: 0, _limit: 10 };

function FancyComponent() {
  const [state, setState] = useLocationQueryState(INITIAL_STATE, converter);
}
```

This `createFieldBasedConverter` receives an object where each key represents a field in your state.

> If you don't specify a custom converter for a field, the default converter will be used (`JSON.stringify` and `JSON.parse`). So, in the example above, you won't lost the `_limit` field.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you don't specify a custom converter for a field, the default converter will be used (`JSON.stringify` and `JSON.parse`). So, in the example above, you won't lose the `_limit` field.
```
